README.md, before:

## appliance-os

Ansible playbooks to configure Mekom's appliance Operating System.

Key features of the OS are:
- Kubernetes cluster
- Autorunner service

### Optional, start a VM with Multipass

Start Multipass machine locally:

```bash
multipass launch -d 16G -m 6G -n os-builder -c 4
```

Paste your public key in:

```bash
multipass exec os-builder nano .ssh/authorized_keys
```

Retrieve the machine IP to further set the `vm_ip` variable.

```bash
multipass info os-builder | grep IPv4
```

### Generate token

Genete a token for the nodes to auto join the master:
on MacOS:
```
uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]'
```
On Linux
```
uuid
```

### Set mandatory variables

Compulsory variables:

| Variable name  | Description |
| ------------- | ------------- |
|  `cluster_token` | A unique token that'll be shared between master and nodes to identify as part of the same cluster. On MacOS, you can use `uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]'` (Linux `uuid`) to get a random value |
| `vm_ip`  | The IP address of the host VM that Ansible must connect to in order to prepare the OS image and start the Qemu machine (could be of any CPU arch) |
| `gateway_ip`  | The IP address of the production router |
| `rpi_static_ip`  | Host-specific IP of each RPi, **to be set in the hosts.yml file** |


### Run the playbook

Run the playbook by replacing all the variable accordingly:

```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -i inventory/sample/hosts.yml --extra-vars "cluster_token=<cluster_token> vm_ip=<host_vm_ip> gateway_ip=<gateway_ip>"
```

Commit message:

INFRA-267: Document MetalLB required variables

README.md, after:

## appliance-os

Ansible playbooks to configure Mekom's appliance Operating System.

Key features of the OS are:
- Kubernetes cluster
- Autorunner service

### Optional, start a VM with Multipass

Start Multipass machine locally:

```bash
multipass launch -d 16G -m 6G -n os-builder -c 4
```

Paste your public key in:

```bash
multipass exec os-builder nano .ssh/authorized_keys
```

Retrieve the machine IP to further set the `vm_ip` variable.

```bash
multipass info os-builder | grep IPv4
```

### Generate token

Genete a token for the nodes to auto join the master:
on MacOS:
```
uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]'
```
On Linux
```
uuid
```

### Set mandatory variables

Required variables:

| Variable name  | Description |
| ------------- | ------------- |
|  `cluster_token` | A unique token that'll be shared between master and nodes so they identify as part of the same cluster. On MacOS, you can use `uuidgen \| tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]'` (Linux `uuid`) to get a random value |
| `vm_ip`  | The IP address of the host VM for Ansible to connect to and prepare the OS image as well as start the Qemu machine (could be of any CPU arch) |
| `gateway_ip`  | The IP address of the router used in production |
| `rpi_static_ip`  | **To be set in the [hosts.yml](inventory/sample/hosts.yml) file**. Host-specific IP of each RPi |
| `load_balancer_addresses`  | **To be set in the [hosts.yml](inventory/sample/hosts.yml) file**. Master-specific addresses range needed by the Load Balancer to properly function. This range should be reserved for the load balancer, therefore excluding all nodes IPs as well as any DHCP range. |


### Run the playbook

Run the playbook by replacing all the variable accordingly, inline as well as in [hosts.yml](inventory/sample/hosts.yml):

```bash
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -i inventory/sample/hosts.yml --extra-vars "cluster_token=<cluster_token> vm_ip=<host_vm_ip> gateway_ip=<gateway_ip>"
```
